Reference sources -
Te Aka Māori Dictionary. N.d. Accessable online. 
Best,E 1955 'The astronomical knowledge of the Maori',Dominion Museum
    Monograph no.3 Wellington:Government Printer
Best,E 1959 'The Maori division of time',Dominion Museum Monograph no4.
    Wellington: Government Printer
Evans,J 1998 'The discovery of Aotearoa', Reed
Kingsley-Smith, C 1967 'Astronomers in puipuis. Maori Star lore',
    Southern Stars 22,5-10
Leather,K and Hall,Richard 2004 'Tatai Arorangi: Maori Astronomy, Work of the
    gods',Viking sevenseas nz ltd, Paraparaumu, NZ, ISBN:085467105 6
Lewis,D 1994 'We, the navigators. The ancient art of landfinding in
    the Pacific',University of Hawaii press
Matamua, R. 2017. Matariki and Māori astronomy with Dr Rangi Matamua. Mcguinness Institute Te Hononga Waka.
Orbell,M 1996 'The natural world of the Maori',David Bateman ltd
Orchiston, W 'Australian Aboriginal, Polynesian and Maori Astronomy',
    Chapter of 1996 'Astronomy before the telescope' 318-328. Editor Chris
    Walker. BCA

NOTES:
Castor not pollux labelled Whakaahu

put in matariki as a star 17499, and set magnitudes to limit 4.0 so it can be seen
Correct Names of Matariki Constellation by star as recorded by Dr Rangi Matamua,
Matariki 			Alceone
Tupu-ā-rangi			Atlas
Tupu-ā-nuku			Pleione
Ururangi			Merope
Waipunarangi			Electra
Hiwa-i-te-rangi			Celaeno
Waitī				Maia
Waitā				Taygeta
Pōhutukawa			Sterope




put tekokota(hyades) in as a constellation

Jupiter and Saturn both have names Perearau, so labelled them Jupiter Perearau_1 and
saturn Perearau_2

Venus has two names, Meremere and Tawera, as there were seperate names for the morning and evening stars.
Earth is named Papa.

In maori, double stars, optical or visual are called Pipiri, as an example Algieba is labelled Pipiri

TERMS in this program: (well some of them) [Multiple spelling corrections made below by native Māori speaker @KururangiWanoa, these spellings can be cooberated with Te Aka Māori Dictionary] Corrections are recognised with an *

Mercury				Takero
Venus		(morning star)			Kōpū (Kōpū-i-te-ata)
		(morning or evening star) 	Tāwera
		(evening star)			Meremere
				Venus has multiple names and phases. Kōpu and Tāwea being the two 				 
				most common. Where Tāwera is paired with either it fulfils
				the role with the other star doesnt. E.g. in the East Coast
				Kōpū-i-te-ata is the dawn star and Tāwera is its evening form. 
Mars				Rangiwhenua
Jupiter*			Hinetīweka*
Saturn*				Pareārau*
				While Jupiter and Saturn have conflicint names across some tribes. 				   
				the name is most often attributed to Saturn. 
Altair				Poutu-te-Rangi
Antares				Rehua
S_Sco				Pekehāwani*
T_Sco				Whakaonge-kai
Canopus				Autahi (Atutahi, Paepaepoto, Makahea, Kauanga, Aotahi, Paepaetoto) 
Procyon				Puanga Hori
Rigel				Puanga
Sirius				Takurua*
Vega				Whānui*
Spica				Whiti-Kapeka
Arcturus			Ruawāhia*
Castor/(Pollox)			Whakaahu
Aldebaran		        Taumatakuku (Whetū-Kura)
Orion		(whole belt)	Te-Hao-o-Rua*
		(the belt)	Tautoru*
		(a part)	Te Kakau
Scorpio		(Alniyat)	Rūhī-te-rangi*
		(the tail)	Te Waka-o-Tama-Rereti
Pleiades			Matariki
Pointers			Te Taura Ra o Rangi*
Maori constellation		Te-Rā-o-Rangi*
Hyades				Te Kōkota*
Southern Cross			Māhutonga*
Coal sack 			Te Pātiki*
Milky Way			Te Ikanui o te rangi (also Called Te Mangoroa)*
Large Magellan cloud		Te Waka Ruru
Small Magellan cloud		Tuputuputu
Double stars			Pipiri
Comets				Auihi Turoa
Ecliptic 			Pito - o - Watea
Moon                            Te Marama
Sun                             Te Rā*


-Te-Ra-o-Tainui: A maori constellation without a European counterpart.
This represents a waka, the belt of orion the keel,
the hyades, a claw sail and the Pleiades the bow.

[Correction for above - Technically Waka-nui and its multiple compartments (Te Rā o Tainui, te Taura o Tainui, are incorrect. Each tribe refers to the Waka by their own. Hence the western people of Tainui call this "Te Waka Nui o Tainu" when other tribes call it "Te Waka nui o Porourangi", 'Te Waka Nui o Rangi" "Te Waka Nui o Awa" etc. It would be best to replace all Tainui with Waka Nui. Thus including and recognising all tribes of Aotearoa New Zealand].
Futher the Sail of Te Waka Nui o Rangi is incorrectly labelled. Te Rā / the sails are only the Te Kōkota /hyades cluster. 



I have provided below a full description of this most important consetllation,
Utilising the Māori names in app is most imporant. I have however provided translations to support nonnative speakers in the implementation of this. 
Te Waka o Rangi (Constellation Name) = The Great Ship of Rangi
Matariki (Constellation)        The Prowl/front of the ship.
Te Kōkota (Hyades) 		The Sails
Tautoru	(Orion Belt)		The Stern
Te Hao o Rua 			The Taurapa (Stern Piece). 
Taramainuku (Sigma Orionis)    	The Captain




-The individual star name Whakaahu either refers to A_Gem or B_Gem,thus
in this program A_Gem is taken as Whakaahu de to a second reference to
Stowell from Best(1955).

- Matariki refers to the Pleiades,
which technically, is not a single star but a star cluster made up dozens
of stars, six visible for naked eye observing, seven if great. 
[Correction, Tūhoe Celestial Expert Dr Rangi Matamua and almost all Māori tribes recognise 9 stars all of which have been listed above].

-WhitiKaupeka and Ruawahia are other Stowell references, A source
that does not fully correlate with Best.
